---
title: i_ack
sidebar_position: 4
---

After the `i_receive` function is executed, an acknowledgment is generated by Router's destination chain Gateway contract, indicating whether the call was successful. The i_ack function must be implemented in your contract with the following structure:

```rust
 public entry fun i_ack(
    self: &mut DappContract,
    gateway_contract_obj: &mut gateway_contract::GatewayContract,
    sent: Receiving<gateway_contract::ExecuteDappIAck>,
    _ctx: &mut TxContext
)
```

#### Parameters:

* `self`: The dapp package state object ID.
* `gateway_contract_obj`: The state ID of the gateway package.
* `sent`: The object being sent to the self object while making the `i_ack` call on the gateway contract.

To obtain the arguments required for the i_receive function, the contract should call `get_i_ack_args` in the gateway package. This function will return a tuple containing:

* `request_identifier`: This is the same nonce received when calling the `i_send` function on the source chain's Gateway contract. It helps map the acknowledgment to the corresponding request.
* `exec_flag`: A boolean value indicating the execution status of the request on the destination chain.
* `exec_data`: exec data returned on the dst i_Receive call.

```rust
public fun get_i_ack_args(self: &ExecuteDappIAck): (u256, bool, vector<u8>)
```

Note: Similar to `i_receive`, after the execution of `i_ack`, the DApp needs to call the `executed_i_ack_dapp` function in the gateway contract to complete the flow.

```rust
public fun executed_i_ack_dapp(
    self: &mut GatewayContract, 
    execute_dapp: ExecuteDappIAck, 
    exec_data: vector<u8>, 
    exec_flag: bool
)
```

:::caution
It is mandatory to include this function in your contract on the src chain if i_ack is required; otherwise, the request will fail.
:::


