---
title: Fee Management
sidebar_position: 5
---

## Gas and Fee Payer Considerations

- Unlike the OmniChain framework, in the case of CrossTalk, users are required to specify both the `gasPrice` and `gasLimit` in their request. This is because the gas parameters and the fee payer specified in a CrossTalk request are used for the execution of the request on the destination chain. In case the `gasPrice` is set to 0, it will be estimated by the gas price oracle module on the Router chain. 
- For a CrossTalk request, relayers might not need to estimate the gas price since the request itself will contain a `gasPrice` parameter. However, applications running their custom relayers might pass the `gasPrice` as 0, in which case, the custom relayer will have to estimate the gas price.

## CrossTalk Fee Model
### Deducting Fee
CrossTalk works on a prepaid fee model. Upon receiving the CrossTalk Request, the Router chain will calculate the estimated fee for executing the transaction on the destination chain in terms of ROUTE tokens and deduct the fee plus incentive from the `feePayer` address upfront.
```javascript
EstimatedFeeInRoute = EstimatedFeeInDestNativeToken * PriceRatio
EstimatedFeeInDestNativeToken = DestGasLimit * GasPriceInDestNativeToken
PriceRatio = DestNativeTokenPrice / RouteTokenPrice
```

**Important Notes**
1. Fee and relayer incentive for any cross-chain request on Router have to be paid in ROUTE tokens only.
2. To prevent Sybil attacks on the Router chain, Router's Gateway contract on the source chain charges a minimal fee from the application contract to cover the cost of orchestrator validation. This fee is paid in the source chain's native token.


### Handling Refunds
Once the Router chain receives the CrossTalkAck generated by the destination chain's Gateway contract, it (a) pays the relayer address the incentive + fee used from the already deducted fee, and (b) refunds the `feePayer` address the extra fee deducted. This mechanism ensures the following:
- The relayer receives its incentive automatically without any delay.
- The applications can send extra gas limit as a buffer since they will get automatic refunds in case of a surplus fee.
